- [Narrator] Within the lab environment,
there's a Jenkins server that we can use to automate
the continuous integration process for our microservices.
To access Jenkins, click this link on the bookmarks bar.
It will navigate to local host on port 8080,
where Jenkins is served.
Once you land on this page,
go ahead and click this option to log into Jenkins.
Here we'll use the credentials admin, admin to log in.
Once you've entered those just hit the sign in button,
and that will take you into Jenkins.
Now, inside of this Jenkins installation,
there are several plugins pre-installed
that will help us build out our pipeline.
Let's go take a look at those.
So come over here and click on manage Jenkins.
And then we can click on this option to manage the plugins.
On this tab,
we can see all the plugins that are installed
within the Jenkins server.
Here I'm just going to filter things down to pipeline,
and then we can start talking about some of these plugins.
The first I'll call your attention to
is the Docker Pipeline plugin.
This will allow us to run different steps of our pipeline
within a Docker container,
which can help make our builds more efficient.
If we scroll down on the page,
we'll also find the Pipeline Plugin.
This plugin allows us to script Jenkins builds
as code inside of a Jenkins file.
This is an alternative to building out Jenkins jobs,
using the forms on the user interface.
Next we're going to scroll up
and I'll highlight the GitHub Branch Source plugin.
This is a plugin that we'll use heavily
throughout the course.
It can automate the creation of pipelines
based on Jenkins files
that it finds in the repositories inside
of a GitHub Organization.
So you create a GitHub Organization
and then this plugin scans it to find those Jenkins files.
And when it does,
it builds a pipeline in Jenkins.
The last plugin that we'll discuss
is the Credentials plugin.
We can use it to store credentials
like our GitHub Personal Access Token or our SSH keys.
This is important because Jenkins
will need to securely connect
to all the other tolling within our pipeline.
Let's go ahead
and we can set up some credentials within Jenkins.
So navigate back to manage Jenkins
and then head into the managed credentials section,
here you'll click on Jenkins,
then you'll navigate into the global credentials
and then here's the option to add credentials.
Within the section,
we're going to create two new credentials.
One is going to be for our GitHub Personal Access Token
and the other for our SSH key.
When setting up our personal access token,
the first thing we'll need to do
is provide our GitHub username,
and then we'll need to fetch our personal access token.
You'll recall that earlier in the course,
I placed mine within a PAT file in my home directory.
So I'm just going to write that out to the console,
copy the value,
and then I'll return to Jenkins and paste it
as the password.
Next we'll need to provide an ID for this credential.
I'm going to call it, github-pat.
And then if we'd like,
we can go ahead and we can add a little description
about this credential.
Okay, let's go ahead
and we'll set up our GitHub Personal Access Token.
All right,
we're going to make one more credential
and that's going to be our SSH key.
So click on add credentials,
and then here you'll want to select SSH username
with private key.
This will change the form up a bit.
First, we're going to provide the name of our credential,
which is going to be github-SSH-key.
Then for the username, we'll specify our GitHub username.
And then finally we'll need to enter the private key
that we created earlier in the course.
So I'm going to navigate back to my home directory,
where I've also placed the private key.
I'll just echo that out to the terminal
and then I'll go ahead and carefully copy its value.
Okay looks like I got it there.
Now let's return back to Jenkins
and here I'll click this add button,
which allows me to paste in the private key
inside of the form.
All right.
Once that's in place, I'll go ahead and hit, okay.
To create the credential.
And now you'll see that we have two credentials
stored within Jenkins
that it can use to connect to GitHub.